src/content/post/trieve-vs-algolia.mdx, before:

---
publishDate: 2024-05-21T08:45:00Z
author: skeptrune (Nick K)
title: Trieve vs. Algolia
excerpt: Compared to Algolia, Trieve offers a more powerful source available search platform with dense-vector semantic capabilities, RAG support, and a ranking plus relevance fine-tuning dashboard for document expansion and merchandising.
image: https://cdn.trieve.ai/trieve-og.png
category: Comparisons
tags:
  - trieve
  - comparison
  - algolia
  - resources
---

import ComparisonTable from '~/components/blog/TrieveVsAlgoliaTable.astro';

## Introduction

Want to learn about this from a human? Book a meeting with a core Trieve engineer [here on cal.com](https://cal.com/nick.k/meet).

This blog post is going to highlight Trieve relative to Algolia and explain which kinds of problems each are respectively better suited to solve. If we can highlight anything, it is that [Trieve is source-available and built in public on Github](https://github.com/devflowinc/trieve) whereas Algolia is fully closed. You can buy a license and host Trieve in your own cloud or on-premise which is something that Algolia explicity [does not offer](https://support.algolia.com/hc/en-us/articles/4406975236625-Can-I-run-Algolia-on-premises-on-my-own-servers).

## When to Use Trieve Over Algolia

- self-hosting on-premise or in your own cloud for privacy and security is valuable for your use-case
- you want to tune search with techniques like document expansion and relevance weighting (merchandising)
- taking advantage of the latest advancements in dense vector semantic search to create a better baseline is important to you
- you have your own dense/sparse-vector encoding or re-ranker models which you would like to use
- high quality recommendations are critical to your discovery problems
- you intend to integrate gen-AI capability in your discovery UX through RAG or search-before-generate patterns

## When to Use Algolia Over Trieve

- built in analytics are necessary for your solution
- Algolia's prebuilt integrations for your UI framework are very important

## Comparison Summary

Trieve sets itself apart by being BSL-licensed self-hostable and built in public at [github.com/devflowinc/trieve](https://github.com/devflowinc/trieve) whereas Algolia is fully closed, having support for dense vector semantic search and recommendations while Algolia is only neural full-text, supporting gen-AI RAG, and shipping with an Admin UI for document expansion and weighting (AKA merchandising).

However, Trieve currently has latency times of ~170ms whereas Algolia is relatively consistent at ~100ms or less. The only time the Trieve team would say to use Algolia, given their closed-source and non self-hostable status, would be if you absolutely need sub-100ms latency times, built-in analytics, or their UI integrations. At Trieve, we are hard at work building these features to reach full parity with Algolia see for yourself on [Trieve's Github](https://github.com/devflowinc/trieve).

<ComparisonTable />

Commit message:

content: update Trieve vs. Algolia blog to be shorter and more direct

src/content/post/trieve-vs-algolia.mdx, after:

---
publishDate: 2024-05-21T08:45:00Z
author: skeptrune (Nick K)
title: Trieve vs. Algolia in 5 Minutes
excerpt: Compared to Algolia, Trieve offers vector based search, manged RAG, and pricing based on rate limits instead of number of search queries
image: https://cdn.trieve.ai/blog/trieve-vs-algolia/trieve-vs-algolia.webp
category: Comparisons
tags:
  - trieve
  - comparison
  - algolia
---

## Features Only Offered by Trieve and Not Algolia

These are features Trieve offers which Algolia does not.

- Managed [topic](https://docs.trieve.ai/api-reference/topic/create-topic) and [message completions](https://docs.trieve.ai/api-reference/message/create-message) API endpoints for RAG with arbitrary LLM's
- Dense vector semantic search with OpenAI, Anthropic, BGE, Jina, or other model vendors
- Cross-encoder re-ranking with bge-reranker-large or other re-ranker models
- Sparse vector semantic search with SPLADE
- SPLADE reranked by dense vectors, dense vectors re-ranked by SPLADE, or any other combination
- Source-Available under [BSL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business_Source_License)
- [REST API](https://docs.trieve.ai/api-reference/chunk/create-or-upsert-chunk-or-chunks)

## Features Only Offered by Algolia and Not Trieve

Features offered by Algolia not offered by Trieve.

- [Built-in A/B testing](https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/ab-testing/what-is-ab-testing/how-to/create-and-run-an-ab-test/)
- [Distributed search networks](https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/scaling/distributed-search-network-dsn/) to have servers with the search index in multiple regions
- [Adjustable language params](https://www.algolia.com/ecommerce-merchandising-playbook/configuring-language-settings/) including prefix parameters, tokenization split characters, and custom word segmentation
- [Neural hashing search](https://www.algolia.com/blog/ai/neural-hashing-ai-search-retrieval/)
- [Website crawler](https://www.algolia.com/products/features/crawler/) for search index management

## Good reasons to choose Trieve or Algolia over a database solution

These are features both Algolia and Trieve have which database-based solutions like Typsesense, Meilisearch, elasticsearch, and OpenSearch do not without plugins or complex configurations.

- Merchandising Studio/Playground to adjust and tune your search
- Built-in-analytics with API routes for passing data like clicks or add-to-cart's
- Query aggregation analytics for colllapsing queries to avoid search-as-you-type clutter
- SaaS style usage pattern where you don't have to think about database management
- Guaranteed low latency (sub-100ms) search in any configuration

## Pricing Differences between Trieve and Algolia

- Algolia charges per query and Trieve does not; we only charge for API rate limits and data stored
- Trieve's merchandising studio comes with every plan; Algolia only provides access to it on their yearly subscriptions
- Trieve's AI features come with every plan; Algolia only provides access on their highest tier yearly subscription
